Lesson 112
joke
do you like people who are often laughing and joking?

Pretend
what am I pretended to do?

Envelope
stamp
leave out
postcode

what do we have to put on the envelope before posting the letter?

If you wright the address on the envelope but leave out the postcode, will the letter still arrive?

Naturally
would you find it difficult to behave naturally if you met someone really famous?

What do I mean if I say “Naturally she was pleased about passing the test?

Recent 
so-so
what is the most recent film you have seen?
What was it like – that is, was it good, bad, or just so-so?
Have you been to any concerts recently?

Mate
house mate
flatmate
classmate
workmate
What can we say instead of the word “friend” in very informal English?
What house mate or flatmate?
Do you know the names of all your classmates?
If you thought one of your workmates was stealing money from the company you worked for, what would you do?

To look forward to
if you looking forward to something, it means that you are waiting for it with pleasure. For example, “I always look forward to going on holiday”.
Is there anything you’re really looking forward to doing at the moment?
What kind of things do you look forward the most?

Let me see
the expression let me see means “Give me time to think for a minute”.
On what kind of occasions do we use it?

Chance.
Dismiss.
Jungle.
Fifty-fifty.
Take a chance.
If you were the owner of a business and one of you workers stole something from the business, would you give them a second chance, or would you dismiss them at once?


  
Supposing there was a place, shell we say, somewhere in the middle of a jungle in South America, where we knew for sure that there was about fifty million pounds worth of gold, but the chance of returning alive were only fifty-fifty, would you go and take a chance and try your luck, or would you just stay at home and dream about it?

Whistle.

Hunt.
Many years ago, did humans have to hunt animals for food?

Deed.
Why should we judge person by his deeds more then his words?

Grease
what do we use grease for?

Scissors
what do we use a pair of scissors?

Take control.
Lose control.
If you were in a bus going downhill and the driver suddenly lost control of the bus, what’d you do?

Due.
Due to.
What might happen if you didn’t pay your electricity bill when it was due?
When are you doe to come here again?
Why don’t train always arrive when they are due to?
When a person is rich, do you think it’s due to the fact they’re more intelligent then most other people, or do you think it’s mainly due to luck?

Grandmother.
Grandfather.
Greate-grandmother.
Greate-grandtather.
Were your grandmother both born in the same country as you?

Mostly.
Are the people in this country mostly tea drinkers or coffee drinkers?
Do you think that passing exams is mostly question of luck?

Totally.
Do you think your language is totally different from English?
If a friend of yours wearing clothes that look totally wrong on them, do you tell them?

Idiom 13.
let yourself go = relax and enjoy yourself.
What does the idiom “let yourself go” mean?

Sentence.

Dictation 74

the court was deadly silent as the judge sentence the criminal to life in prison . The man was not very badly hurt in the accident, which happened on the station platform, but he was taken to hospital to see the doctor, just to be on the save side. It is irritating that he always confuses the meaning of the words “rough” and “smooth”. When judging anything, we should always try to look under the surface of things and see things as they really are.




Lesson 113

Discuss.
Discussion.
Argue.
Argument.
Quarrel.
Anger.
Reason.
If people discuss something with each other, it means that they talk about something in a serious or formal manner. People often express different opinions in a discussion but it is rarely unpleasant.
If people argue about something with each other, it means that they disagree strongly on a subject and become angry.
If people quarrel about something with each other, it means that they loss control of their anger, and start shouting and saying unpleasant things to each other. 
Therefor, we could say that two people could being by quietly discussion a subject, the discussion could then develop into an argument, and the argument could finish in a quarrel. 
What the difference between “to discuss”, “to argue” and “to quarrel”?
Do you enjoy discussing politics?
Why do house mate sometimes argue with each one another?
Did you quarrel a lot with your brother or sister when you were a child?
Another meaning of the verb “to quarrel” is “to reason”. For example, “He argues that he could not finish because he didn’t have sufficient time”, or “ his argument for not finishing the job was that he didn’t have sufficient time”.
Give me an example of the word “argue” used with the meaning of “to reason”.

Regular.
Do something about.
What does it mean “to live regular life”?
Would you say that a regular life was better than irregular one?
Can a dentist do anything about irregular teeth?
Do you work irregular hours?

Blow up.
Why is it important to blow up bridges during a war?

Dust.
Powder.
Collect.
Face powder.
Meeting.
Football match.
Red cross.
The difference between dust and powder is that dust is natural and collects on objects. For example, if a table is not cleaned for a long time, you will find dust on it. Powder, on the other hand, is something that is made. For example, washing powder is powder we put into washing machine to clean out clothes, and face powder is powder made for the face.
What’s the difference between dust and powder?
Have you ever collected stamps or anything like that?
On what kind of occasions do people collect together in a large numbers?
Do they collect money in the street in you country for different causes, such as for red cross, the poor etc?
What do you consider to be a good cause worth collecting money for?

Furniture.
Furnish.
What kind of furniture do you like to see a room furnished with?

Available.
How long does it usually take for a new film to become available to buy?
If you fang somebody up when they were at work but they weren’t available immediately, would you wait, leave a message or call back latter?

Human being.
Do you think human being sometimes behave worse than animals?

Artificial.
What artificial parts of the body can science provide us with?

PLURAL OF NOUNS AND THIRD PERSON SINGULAR OF VERBS 

Kiss.
Rush.
Hero.
General speaking, when a word ends in the letters “o,s,x,z,ch,sh”, we form its plural, if in is a noun, and its third person singular of the present simple tense, if it is a verb, by adding the letters “es” to it. For example, “one potato – two potatoes” and “I go – you go – he goes”. The word “piano” is an exception; we say “one piano – two pianos”.
When do we add the letters “es” to form the plural of a noun and the third person singular of a verb?
If the noun or verb ends in a consonant plus “y”, the “y” to change to “i” and then the letter “es” are added. For example, “one lady – two ladies” and “I cry – you cry – he cries”.
What happens when a noun or verb ends in a consonant plus “y”?
if you kiss your mother hello, how many kisses do you give her?
What do we mean by the rush our in a large city?
Who were your heroes when you were a child?

Idiom 14
pull someones leg = joke with someone, by making them believe something that is not true.
What does the idiom “pull someones leg” mean?

Dictation 75.
The man was charged with committing one of the most serious crimes that anyone can commit, and it was totally clear right from the beginning that he was guilty .  If you invite me to your house, I’d be your guest, and you’d be my host. People are not usually good at drawing straight lines without the help of a ruler. One of the best thing for a headache is to lie down and relax.

Lesson 114 
Dish.
Serve.
The difference between a plate and a dish is that a plate is flat, whereas a dish is deeper. We usually eat food from plate, whereas we serve food from a dish. The word “dish” can also mean food made in a particular way, such as fish and chips or chili con carne.
what’s the difference between a dish and a plate?
what’s your favorite dish?
Do you know haw to make it?

To be for (of against) something.
Arms.
Fox.
Fox hunting.
Are you for or against the police carrying arms when they are walking around the streets on duty?
Are you for or against fox hunting?

Seize.
Handbag.
What do members of the general public do when they see a criminal seize a woman’s handbag in the street?

Break out.
What would you do if another word war broke out?

Wage.
Salary.
Payment.
Profession.
Non-professional.
We use the word “wage” and “salary” for the payment received for work done. The difference between wage and salary is that we generally use the word “wage” for a non-professional job, or a job in which a person earns a fixed amount of money for each hour they work, whereas we generally use “salary” for a professional job, or a job in which a person earns a fixed amount of money each year.

Steady.
Seasonal.
Seaside.
Painter.
Pianist.
Surgeon.
What kind of people don’t earn a steady wage or salary?
Do seasonal workers, such as waiter who work at seaside hotel in the summer, receive a wage or a salary?
About how long do you think it’ll take you to finish this book if you keep working steadily?

PLURAL OF NOUNS ENDING IN “F” OR “FE”

leaf.
Loaf.
Shelf.
Cliff.
When a noun ends in “f” or “fe”, we generally make its plural by changing the “f” or “fe” to “ves”. For example, “leaf – leaves”, “loaf – loaves”, “shelf – shelves”, “knife – knives”, “wife – wives” etc. however, three common expressions to this rule are “chefs”, “cliffs” and “roofs”.

How do we generally form the plural of a noun ending “f” or “re”?
What are three common expression to this rule?

Deer.
Wood.
what’s the plural of “deer”?
Where do deer prefer to live: in woods or open fields?

Mention.
What kind of things do people often mention when they’re telling you about a holiday they’ve just been on?

Tell off.
When does a mother tell off her child?
 

Partner.
If you went into business, would you prefer to have a partner or to be alone?

Insist.
If a friend buys you a drink in a bar, do you normally insist on giving them money or do you just buy them a drink the next time?

Board.
Floorboard.
Noticeboard.
Blackboard.
Deck.
Port.
Director.
The basic meaning of the word “board” is a flat peace of wood. From it, we get “floorboard”,”noticeboard”,blackboard” etc.

what’s the basic meaning of the word board?
Give me some example of what we get from the word “board”.
What do we use a noticeboard for?
We use noticeboard for putting notice on. It is a quick and easy way of giving news and information to everybody. 
From the idea that the deck of a boat is made from wooden boards, we get the verb “to board” and the expression “on board”. We use these when we are talking about getting on or being on boats, ships and planes. 
Do you have to show passport before you can board a plain?
What would happen if you went on board ship to say goodbye to a friend and you remained on a board after the ship had left port?

We can also use the word board with the idea of a table, and from this we get, for example, “a board of directors”, which is a group of directors who control a company or other organization. As these people usually meet round a table, we call there meeting “a board meeting”.

Also from the idea of a table, we use board with the idea of the food we are giving when we stay at a hotel. If we pay for pull board, we get breakfast, lunch and dinner. If we pay for half board, we get breakfast and dinner only. Alternative, we use simply pay for “bed and breakfast”.

Idiom 15.
see eye to eye = agree with someones
Richard and his wife see eye to eye on most things.

What the idiom “see eye to eye” mean?

LESSON 115

PRESENT SIMPLE FOR THE FUTURE

timetable.
Schedule
We use the present simple to speak about a future action when we are talking about timetable or schedules. For example, we can say “The film starts at 10 p.m.”, My train leaves in fifteen minutes”, “English play football against Germany next Saturday”

Give me some example of the present simple for the future, please.

When does the lesson finish?

Do you know when your football team play their next game?

Account.
Give me a short account of what you did yesterday.
Give me a short account of the last film you saw.
Do you have a bank account?
Do you have an account of any shop?
Do you keep an account of all the money you spend?

Greedy.
Satisfied.
Crop.
Are greedy people always satisfied with what they have?
Why is a farmer never satisfied with the weather?

Differ.
Do you eye differ color from mine?
 What sometimes happens if two people differ greatly in their opinions on a particular subject?

Privet.
Have you ever had privet English lessons?
Is it important to ask questions about someone’s private life unless you know them very well?

RELATIVE CLAUSES.
We have already a lot about relative clauses, but here  are a few more things that we should know.

What
we use the relative pronoun “what” instead of “which” or “that” when we don’t mention the thing that the relative clause describes. For example, instead of saying “she showed me the dress which she had bought”, we can say “She showed me what she had bought”.
When do we use the relative pronoun “what”?
She told the waiter what she wanted.
When you was a child, did you always like what you were given for you birthday?
Have you already chosen what you’re going to eat this evening?

Whom
with formal English, some people prefer to use the relative pronoun “whom”
instead of “who”. However, this is only possible when the relative pronoun is non the subject of the verb that follows.
In the sentence “I recognized the criminal who stole the bag”, the word “who”
is the subject of the verb “stole”; in this sentence, we cannot use “whom”.
However, in the sentence “I recognize the criminal who the policeman arrested”, the word who is not the subject. In this case some people prefer to use the word “whom” instead of “who” and say “I recognized the criminal “whom” the policeman arrested”. In informal English, however the word “whom” is never used.

When do some people prefer to use the relative pronoun “whom” instead of “who”?
If you were employed by someone whom you disliked, what would you do?

In very formal English, we sometimes have a preposition at the beginning of a relative clause, and in this case we cannot follow the preposition with the word “who”; we must use “whom” instead. For example, “She is the lady with whom I had a conversation”, or “The manager to whom I sent the document has not replied”. (Remember, however, that in normal spoken English we put the preposition at the end, and say “she is the lady who I had conversation with”, or “the manager who I sent the document to hasn’t replied”.)

When we have a preposition at the beginning of a relative clause, can we follow the preposition with the word “who”?
Do you know the nationality of all the students with whom you are studying at the moment?
In normal spoken English, what do we say instead of “We need to contact the customer from whom she took the payment?

Whose
we use the word “whose” at the beginning of relative clause instead of using a possessive adjective like “my”, “your”, “his” etc. For example, instead of saying “I have a dog its tail is long”, we can say “I have a dog whose tail is long”. Instead of saying “Yesterday I visited Mr Jones. I work with his sister”,
we can say “Yesterday I visited Mr Jones, whose sister I work with”.
When do we use the word whose at the beginning of a relative clause?

Do you know the people whose house is next to yours?

Search
why do the police use dogs when they are searching for a criminal?

Have you ever been searched at an airport?

Support
what supports this celling?
Do you support any particular football team?

Idiom 16
watch your step = be careful.
What does the idiom “watch your step” mean?

Religious 

dictation 76.
forgetting that the doorway was low, I received a sever blow on my head as I went through it. Children are thought that they should respect their elders. He lived in a period when people were burned alive for their political and religious opinions. They had no children of their own, so they adopted one. A person who is not a born leader, can, nevertheless, sometimes be taught leadership. That particular king is considered one of the cruelest figures in English history.
